.. _publications:

Publications
============

Below is a chronological list of notable publications that emerged from the PSE group's collaborative work.
These articles detail the evolution of GNPy and confirm its performance through experimental trials:

- `G. Grammel, V. Curri, and J. Auge, "Physical Simulation Environment of The Telecommunications Infrastructure Project (TIP)," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference, OSA Technical Digest (online) (Optica Publishing Group, 2018), paper M1D.3. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=OFC-2018-M1D.3>`_
- `B. D. Taylor, G. Goldfarb, S. Bandyopadhyay, V. Curri, and H. Schmidtke, "Towards a Route Planning Tool for Open Optical Networks in the Telecom Infrastructure Project," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference, OSA Technical Digest (online) (Optica Publishing Group, 2018), paper Tu3E.4. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=OFC-2018-Tu3E.4>`_
- `M. Filer, M. Cantono, A. Ferrari, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, and V. Curri, "Multi-Vendor Experimental Validation of an Open Source QoT Estimator for Optical Networks," J. Lightwave Technol. 36, 3073-3082 (2018). <https://opg.optica.org/jlt/abstract.cfm?uri=jlt-36-15-3073>`_
- `J. Auge, G. Grammel, E. le Rouzic, V. Curri, G. Galimberti, and J. Powell, "Open optical network planning demonstration," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC) 2019, OSA Technical Digest (Optica Publishing Group, 2019), paper M3Z.9. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=OFC-2019-M3Z.9>`_
- `J. Kundrát, A. Campanella, E. Le Rouzic, A. Ferrari, O. Havliš, M. Hažlinský, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, and V. Curri, "Physical-Layer Awareness: GNPy and ONOS for End-to-End Circuits in Disaggregated Networks," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC) 2020, OSA Technical Digest (Optica Publishing Group, 2020), paper M3Z.17. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=ofc-2020-m3z.17>`_
- `A. Ferrari, M. Filer, K. Balasubramanian, Y. Yin, E. Le Rouzic, J. Kundrát, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, and V. Curri, "Experimental Validation of an Open Source Quality of Transmission Estimator for Open Optical Networks," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC) 2020, OSA Technical Digest (Optica Publishing Group, 2020), paper W3C.2. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=ofc-2020-W3C.2>`_
- `A. Ferrari, M. Filer, K. Balasubramanian, Y. Yin, E. Le Rouzic, J. Kundrát, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, and V. Curri, "GNPy: an open source application for physical layer aware open optical networks," J. Opt. Commun. Netw. 12, C31-C40 (2020). <https://opg.optica.org/jocn/fulltext.cfm?uri=jocn-12-6-C31&id=429003>`_
- `A. Ferrari, K. Balasubramanian, M. Filer, Y. Yin, E. Le Rouzic, J. Kundrát, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, and V. Curri, "Softwarized Optical Transport QoT in Production Optical Network: a Brownfield Validation," 2020 European Conference on Optical Communications (ECOC), Brussels, Belgium, 2020. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9333280>`_
- `A. Ferrari, K. Balasubramanian, M. Filer, Y. Yin, E. Le Rouzic, J. Kundrát, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, and V. Curri, "Assessment on the in-field lightpath QoT computation including connector loss uncertainties," in Journal of Optical Communications and Networking, vol. 13, no. 2, pp. A156-A164, February 2021. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9308057>`_
- `J. Kundrát, E. Le Rouzic, J. Mårtensson, A. Campanella, O. Havliš, A. D’Amico, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, V. Curri, and J. Vojtěch, "GNPy & YANG: Open APIs for End-to-End Service Provisioning in Optical Networks," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC) 2021, P. Dong, J. Kani, C. Xie, R. Casellas, C. Cole, and M. Li, eds., OSA Technical Digest (Optica Publishing Group, 2021), paper M1B.6. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=ofc-2021-M1B.6>`_
- `A. D’Amico, E. London, B. Le Guyader, F. Frank, E. Le Rouzic, E. Pincemin, N. Brochier, and V. Curri, "GNPy experimental validation on flex-grid, flex-rate WDM optical transport scenarios," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC) 2021, P. Dong, J. Kani, C. Xie, R. Casellas, C. Cole, and M. Li, eds., OSA Technical Digest (Optica Publishing Group, 2021), paper W1G.2. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=ofc-2021-W1G.2>`_
- `E. Virgillito, R. Braun, D. Breuer, A. Gladisch, V. Curri, and G. Grammel, "Testing TIP Open Source Solutions in Deployed Optical Networks," in Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC) 2021, P. Dong, J. Kani, C. Xie, R. Casellas, C. Cole, and M. Li, eds., OSA Technical Digest (Optica Publishing Group, 2021), paper F1C.3. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=ofc-2021-F1C.3>`_
- `A. D’Amico, E. London, B. Le Guyader, F. Frank, E. Le Rouzic, E. Pincemin, N. Brochier, and V. Curri, "Experimental validation of GNPy in a multi-vendor flex-grid flex-rate WDM optical transport scenario," J. Opt. Commun. Netw. 14, 79-88 (2022). <https://opg.optica.org/jocn/fulltext.cfm?uri=jocn-14-3-79&id=466355>`_
- `J. Kundrát, E. Le Rouzic, J. Mårtensson, S. Melin, A. D’Amico, G. Grammel, G. Galimberti, and V. Curri, "GNPy: Lessons Learned and Future Plans [Invited]," in European Conference on Optical Communication (ECOC) 2022, J. Leuthold, C. Harder, B. Offrein, and H. Limberger, eds., Technical Digest Series (Optica Publishing Group, 2022), paper We3B.6. <https://opg.optica.org/abstract.cfm?uri=ECEOC-2022-We3B.6>`_
- `G. Grammel, J. Kundrat, E. Le Rouzic, S. Melin, V. Curri, A. D'Amico, R. Manzotti, "Open Optical Networks: the good, the bad and the ugly," 49th European Conference on Optical Communications (ECOC 2023), Hybrid Conference, Glasgow, UK, 2023. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10484723>`_
- `A. D’Amico, V. Gatto, A. Nespola, G. Borraccini, Y. Jiang, P. Poggiolini, E. Le Rouzic,  A. M. L. de Lerma, G. Grammel, R. Manzotti, V. Curri, "GNPy Experimental Validation in a C+L Multiband Optical Multiplex Section," 2024 24th International Conference on Transparent Optical Networks (ICTON), Bari, Italy, 2024. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10648172>`_
